# CS50W Final Project - OnlinEdu

*This project is a web application that behaves similar to **EdX** - an online education platform with instructors and users. Students can join courses, start discussions as well as add comments to existing discussions and at the end of the course, get an auto generated certificate with their name and course title.*

## Features of the project are as follow:
* 2 form of users - Instructors and Students
* Instructors upon registration are not active by default. The admin will review the reference video provided by the teacher and then set their status to active. Upon active status, the instructor will receive an email confirming their status handled through django.
* Instructors can create courses with videos of YouTube which will be auto embed by django.
* Students can join courses and check the rating and student count of courses before joining.
* Inside the course, students can watch the video or see the discussion board.
* In the discussion board, students can add discussion threads or comment on existing ones.
* Instructor can comment on the discussion boards and will be highlighed for students to see.
* Students and instructors can click on like on threads/comments to show if post has been helpful.
* Upon completion of a course, tracked through YouTube iframe API, students can then receive a certificate.
* Students will be provided auto generated certificate with their name and project name upon completion.
* Students can download the certificate as PNG or get a PDF copy too that is generated by django.
* Students can leave reviews and ratings for the course upon course completion.
* Validations have been put in place to ensure no one gets the certificate unless they're enrolled for the course.
* Through bootstrap, the website has been ensured to be mobile responsive.

## The justification behind why this fulfills the criteria of the final project are as below:
The dissimilarities with the current projects are below - 
* No project asks us to create a version of online education platform
* Project allows admin ability to set instructor to active and send email to said user automatically upon active status change
* Project has certificate auto generation ability built in both for PNG and PDF.
* Threaded discussions have been added which is unique in terms of the course.
* Embedded YouTube videos alongside video completion tracker added.